hey guys it's Brandon minimun from
pocketnow.com Firefox for mobile for
Android has been released as a final
final version you may have known this
previously as fennec for Android or for
Windows Mobile its feature complete it
is done it is ready for you to use and
in this video we're going to talk about
all of the features let's get to it
so Firefox Mobile has come a very long
way and it's finally good enough that
you might want to use it as your daily
browser so let's talk about what we have
here it's a pretty big download actually
it's about 15 megabytes so keep that in
mind if you want to download it over
Wi-Fi it may save you a little bit on
your data connection so this is the this
is what you see when you arrive in the
Firefox application you can swipe to the
left to see your open page is a really
great way to manage tabs or you can
swipe to the right to go back forward to
check out your favorites to do settings
and do some other things that we'll talk
about in a minute now this has Firefox
Sync and it'll sync up with the Firefox
desktop browser
which is awesome because you probably
have a lot of tabs open at one time this
lets you take your tabs with you really
cool feature
so let's swipe to the left and you'll
see what I mean if I press the plus
button to open a new tab I get four
columns here I've got all pages
bookmarks and these are all the standard
built-in bookmarks history so I can see
where I've been or desktop this is the
coolest part says Brandon's Firefox
running on Windows NT and share all of
the five tabs that I have currently open
on my desktop browser so I can pull up
any of these pages that I have open and
it will go there really quick just an
awesome way to sort of integrate that
experience from your from your desktop
to your phone sort of its seamless
experience so we can continue to add
various tabs we can add let's say
YouTube and Engadget and let's just load
up a bunch of tabs and see how
performance is with lots of tabs open
this has really come a long way in terms
of performance it used to be kind of
slowing buggy but now it works really
well and tabs will load simultaneously
as you can see they're starting to load
got a lot of tabs coming through there
or for a Wi-Fi connection so should be
pretty fast
so just a couple of seconds later and we
have all the tabs loaded now there are a
few things that you can do from here
first of all let's take a look at
pinch-to-zoom performance and panning
and scrolling so let's click down the
page very quickly okay we get some
checkerboard so not perfect in that
respect we can stop it and we can pinch
to zoom pretty good performance looks
like we accidentally clicked on a link
there and you can go back with the
android back button or you can do a
little swipe over here and use the
buttons over there
so let's zoom in on something pinch the
scroll or pinch to zoom isn't as refined
as it is on even the the default browser
for Android now if we swipe over to the
right you're going to see a few options
here we can go right into the settings
really nice and interface for the
settings we get this tab design again
and what we can do here is we can enable
sync which I've got it and then it's
connected to my desktop computer this
doesn't have flash something to keep in
mind here are some formatting options
that you can take a look at we can go to
the download manager which is a nice
feature to have and of course plugins
it's one of the coolest parts about
Firefox is that the plug-in
functionality has been brought over and
you can get a little sampling of the
plugins available I've already installed
one that I want to show you you can
install adblock bigger text there's just
a lot of stuff here that really can
extend the functionality of your mobile
browser something that I have installed
should show up up here it's called
reading list so let's say we click on an
article and maybe we're going to be
going on the subway we're not going to
have an internet connection or we're
going on a plane or something we want to
save an article to read later so we're
gonna let this article load up and I'll
show you exactly what this plug-in does
and how well it integrates with Firefox
for mobile ok so it's done I click on
the little icon here and I go to save
for later this is the save for later
plug-in now if I swipe to the right and
I go to the save for later list here are
two articles that I've saved that are
available for offline viewing pretty
cool that you could do this with with a
mobile browser and as you can see all of
these tabs are open and we can close
them sort of one at a time let's do a
speed test just to get a sense for how
fast this is compared to the built-in
browser in android so we're in a load
pocket now
come on both of these let's go to pocket
now we're going to load the desktop view
by the way this is available in the
Android Market so you can download it
for free right when you are ready to
don't want to go there right when you're
ready to check it out so let's go to em
pocket okay there all right great so
let's go to the desktop site now as you
can see right off the bat Firefox is not
giving us that full screen view although
we should have that option if we go to
preferences and let's see do we have a
full screen option doesn't look like we
have a full screen option actually which
is strange so sort of plus or one for
the built-in Android browser because it
allows you to do full screen view
especially when you have the sense HTC
Sense sort of overlay on top of it so
let's do a desktop version at the same
time see which one gets there first or
over the same Wi-Fi network you can see
the status bar shows you the loading and
here you just get a little spinning
cursor to show you that the site is
still loading okay so it looks like the
Chrome browser or the stock browser on
Android finished first and a little bit
soon after that we got the load on
Firefox for mobile you can tell just the
difference in pinch to zoom it seems
kind of slower on the on the firefox
browser let's click these links at the
same time and see kind of missed that
kind of do it a second after see how
fast that is so performance isn't as
good as you would get on Chrome for
Android but in terms of versatility you
really have a lot of really fantastic
options a lot of fresh interface choices
with the tabs on the side and the
ability to jump to the favorites list
just by clicking over here and swiping
to the right some pretty good gesture
support and of course we can go into
landscape as well we'll have to come
back and talk about sort of long term
how this bears as your daily driver
browser because certainly looking at it
for five minutes doesn't really do it
justice in terms of how it functions on
a longer term basis so give Firefox
mobile a try download it from the
Android Market drop a
to comment and let us know if you're
gonna use it as your daily driver
browser and how you how you like it or
if you even like it
and please give us a thumbs up if you
like this video and thanks for watching
that's it for now